---
title: "the bird"
date: 2002-11-02 00:35:40 -05:00
categories: [Happy]
permalink: /2002/11/the_bird.html
---

<p>No name yet.</p>

<p><a href="http://bloggy.com/mt/archives/000398.html#000398">This little guy</a> (gal?) essentially flew into our apartment this afternoon.<br />
I was in the kitchen when I heard a soft thump at the window of the breakfast room. I looked up and saw a bright little fuzzy splotch in sort-of-a-chartreuse hue clinging desperately to a tiny steel muntin.</p>

<p>Fully aware that my next move might determine both of our fates, I opened the abutting window to the very cold air with very mixed feelings.  He/she didn't need much encouragement at all, and soon ended up inside.  An hour later it was sitting on my shoulder.  By all appearances and movements, our guest is a very healthy young adult.</p>

<p>No one knew of any budgerigars in the building.  I checked.</p>

<p>By the end of the afternoon all three of us were in posession of a parakeet home starter set, complete with, and this is my favorite, a colorful playgym combination abacus, mirror, feedcup and perch.</p>

<p>I mean, we didn't go out and buy a pet;  the beautiful little creature dropped in on us.</p>

<p>When I explained to Douglas, our neighborhood pet store clerk, why I needed just a few ounces of seed, I still thought I had a choice.  Maybe so, but he at least cinched my decision with, "Hey, it's got to mean something.  Besides it'll bring all that serenity."</p>

<p>But I don't think it's working that way yet.</p>

<p>A better picture soon.</p>
