---
title: "MARCH 20:  our streets, the \"other superpower\""
date: 2004-03-17 19:18:26 -05:00
categories: [War]
permalink: /2004/03/march_20_our_st.html
---

<p>On Saturday Barry and I will be in the streets again, along with nobody knows how many others, on the anniversary of Bush's war on the world, sometimes known as "the war on Iraq," or even "the war against terror."</p>

<p>For us it will be the streets of New York, and we will be joining the Palestinian contingent.  We should be assembling at 11:15 am on 25th Street between 5th Avenue & Broadway, in what is called Worth Square, named after General William Jenkins Worth and we will be next to the monument to this wretched man's <a href="http://www.aztecclub.com/bios/worth.htm">iniquities</a>:  He mowed down Native Americans and Mexicans in several Imperial wars on their own lands.  We ended up stealing all of the Seminole nation and half of the Mexican.  Very heroic, very patriotic, and it had already become an American tradition even before his time.</p>

<p>For more information on the day, go to <a href="http://www.unitedforpeace.org/">United for Peace and Justice</a>, "The World <i>Still</i> Says No To War."</p>

<blockquote>
<p>Momentum is building for the Global Day of Action against War and Occupation on March 20, 2004 — the one-year anniversary of the U.S. invasion of Iraq. On that day people all around the globe will take to the streets to say YES to peace and NO to pre-emptive war and occupation. In communities large and small around the United States and across the globe, we will call for an end to the occupation of Iraq and Bush's militaristic foreign policies. March 20 will be the first time the world's "other superpower" will take center stage since Feb. 15 [2003].</p>
</blockquote>
